.de URL
\\$2 \(laURL: \\$1 \(ra\\$3
..
.if \n[.g] .mso www.tmac
.TH ARGONCTL 1  "June 2020"  https://git.io/argon1
.SH NAME
argonctl \- modify files by randomly changing bits
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B argonctl
\fIcommand\fR
[\fIarg\fR ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B argonctl
is a command-line utility to query and control the \fBargononed\fR daemon.
It simply translates it's arguments into D-Bus method calls.  Therefore,
D-Bus access rights apply: any user can issue query commands, but only
users that belong to the argonone group can issue commands that modify
the daemon's state or configuration (e.g., set speed, enable/disable control
features, etc).
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.BR temp ", " temperature
Print the current CPU temperature value. Note that this is updated based on regular polling,
so it may lag actual temperature by the polling interval (dy default, 10 seconds). 
.TP
.BR speed ", " fan_speed 
Print the current fan speed.  The output is an integer between 0 (off) and 100 (maximum).
.TP
.BR set_speed " " \fIvalue\fR
Set the fan speed. The argument is required and must be an integer between 0 and 100 (inclusive).
This command does not change temperature-based control. Therefore, if control is enabled, the
fan speed will be updated according to the lookup table when temperature is polled.
.TP
.BR pause ", " pause_fan
Disables temperature-based fan control.  Fan speed will remain at what it was when the
command was issued.  Therefore, if you wish to turn the fan off, you also need to issue a 
\fBset_speed\fR command.  Although fan speed will no longer be set based on CPU temperature
(and the daemon's look up table), the CPU temperature will still be polled and updated.
If fan control was already disabled, this command has no effect.
.TP
.BR resume ", " resume_fan
Enables temperature-based fan control.  If fan control was enabled, this command has no effect
.TP
.BR fan_status
Shows whether temperature-based fan control is enabled.  Outputs 1 if enabled and 0 if disabled.
.TP
.BR lut ", " fan_lut
Prints out the lookup table (LUT) for temperature-based fan speed control.
.TP
.BR pause_button " / " resume_button " / " button_status
Similar to the pause/resume/status commands for temperature-based fan control, but for
button-based shutdown/reboot control.  When button-based power state control is disabled,
button presses \fIare\fR monitored (and D-Bus signals are emitted), but the daemon itself
does not issue system shutdown or reboot commands itself.  This is similar to 
disabling temperature-based fan speed control: temperature is monitored (and D-Bus signals
emmitted), but the daemon itself does not issue fan speed commands.
.IP
.BI NOTE:
Even if power button control is disabled/paused, upon shutdown the daemon will
issue a system command \fIanyway\fR.  This is a workaround for ArgonOne's hardware "protocol"
(see README.md for more information).
.TP
.BR shutdown
This is a special command, reserved \fIonly\fR for root and argonone system user.  It should
\fInot\fR be used directly. Users should shut down the daemon using \fBsystemctl\fR instead.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2020 Spiros Papadimitriou 
.PP
This software is released under the 
.URL "https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT" "MIT License"
and it is distributed on an "AS IS" basis,
WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.SH SEE ALSO
.URL "https://github.com/spapadim/argon1" "Argon1 homepage"
